The Joe Rogan experience.
So I'm in my underwear and I'm living on top of a rock in this cave.
And the oldest guy in the village is, you know, when he starts talking,
it's like, uh, I'm in like lion king. And he's like, when I was young on all,
you know, I have a translator with me,
he's translating [inaudible] to so Healy to English.
He's like elephants lions, hippos,
like everywhere. And like, it was like a buffet. We just wake up,
we could kill anything. And in my lifetime that has been gone. It's gone.
It's like the there's very few animals left to hunt. And the ones that are like,
they're endangered, you can't kill them. So life there is very,
very hard and they go, you want to hunt with us? And I'm like, dude,
look at my body. Do I look like, and um,
there was like a Catholic priest that set up a mission in that area.
And he's been, I met him.
He's been trying to convert the Hadza to a Catholic Catholicism for 20
years. And he's like, they use the, the Bible pages to smoke weed.
So what do they hunt with bow and arrow, like homemade bow and arrow,
homemade bow and arrow. Like, like just, they,
they take this wood and they spent all day making the arrows. Yup.
[inaudible] yeah. I'll show you how they did learn that, make it,
and then they use their teeth to think. I know that guy
that might be Rasuli. Um, and then they, um,
there's a plant that they, um,
they harvest and they, they do all this stuff to it.
And then that's the poison that they put on the tip of the arrow and these
guys. Yup. There it is.
How crazy it is. I think that this is how people hunted, dude.
I live longest time, dude. I live in a state of the art.
I lived like this for months, man. It was like.
So you did this as well.
Dude. So first, first day of the hunt they're like,
did they teach you how to shoot a bow? First through my bow shooting is so off.
And um, yeah, so we practice had, you had shot a bow in the path,
never shot a bow in it in my life. There's one of these, one of these guys.
See it, it almost looks like a toy. Like you think it wouldn't work.
There's one guy in the village Shawnee that's so strong that he could shoot the
arrow through the kudu. It was up. And I was like,
you're back muscles in that mother. Oh my God. They're ripped, dude. My God,
that guy is Jack. The ripper really strong. He's a very strong, so.
Pulling them back is probably tremendous. Like back muscle.
Everyone knows how to hunt. The kids know how to hunt.
They use it for the feathers at the end of.
The one that's uh, which guy? No doubt.
Yeah, that guy. Yup. I stayed with that guy. Well, yeah,
he's older now. See the cuts on his face. Yeah, I have that.
They cut my face. So yeah. I asked them too, cause I like pain for real.
But look at that guy. It's almost gone now. This was a dude,
but don't don't they look like supermodels. Like they're like really? Yeah.
I'm like just.
And also you got to think of the amount of effort that they're doing CrossFit
classes every day. Right? I mean, think about just getting by,
as a hunter gatherer with their crazy bow that you have to pull back and you're
running through the woods all the time.
Like you have to be fit it's it's unbelievable.
What a crazy way to live. Yeah. Look at that.
I mean, what's, he's in for the feathers for the fletching. Do you know.
Dude,
these are so in tune with nature that they'll go,
they'll make a bird sound and they're talking to the bird and the bird will show
you where the honey is like,
and then there's a pack of 50 dogs following us and the dogs aren't pets,
they're hunting tools. Right? So the dogs are the first line of defense.
They've sniff it out. And I'm like, this is,
this is mental, right? It's like, oh,
like I'm on a insane experience right now. Never did.
I thought I would just wait, why? Why am I going home?
So if I walk with one of the kids, una amazing,
it's a clicking language. It's like, like that kind of language.
Did you learn any of it? Tiny bit.
And I didn't of course I did a podcast where I speak. [inaudible]
imagine if they take that out of context,
it turns out you're saying some really up.
I try, you gotta be careful. Right? If you're making up a language,
like you might accidentally hit on some real there. I tried,
I tried just say one or two forbidden words.
So if I walk with one of the kids and it's like him giving me a tour of his
house, like, oh, come to Joe's warehouse and he's showing me right.
He's like grabbing a snake, biting his head off. He's like, he's like,
you want some thing climbing a tree with.
Just grabbed a snake, just grab it off. He takes.
Out his Slingshot, the rock, a pebble,
this big bam hits a Bush baby out of the tree breaks
his leg breaks. His legs puts it here. It's like snack for later,
everything is talking there. It's like,
it looks like they're just goofing off and playing. But there they have like,
must they have, um, some, uh, what do you call it?
Microbes and gut biome kind of things in their stomach that no one else on the
planet has. So the translators explaining to me,
Canadian scientists like scientists come and literally steal their.
They find them in the Steelers. And I'm like, they're factual poop.
They're actually just to get their bio because there's biomes in there that
don't exist anywhere. Secret to a healthier,
they might have eaten in the Hadza diet.
I, if you Google steel African, I bet you it'll come up. See, look,
there it is. So this, see the bees on his head.
They're lightened them up and he's eating the honey and it does nothing to him
really? So we go climbing, Hey, come on.
Columbia tree guy sticks his hand in the tree, scoops that out,
starts eating it. Like it's a hamburger bees. And I'm like, bro, I'm cool.
No, no, no. Come on, come on. Like, we've been doing this, a kid doing this,
right. The kids I go in one stink.
My hand inflates to like a Mickey mouse.
Like I'm like.
You've been getting stung since you were a kid.
So you're like immune to it and they're just.
Doesn't bother them. It doesn't bother them. Yeah. They're,
they're fine with it. And their body has also gotten immune to it. Right.
That's crazy to bite in that honeycomb.
Like it's a snack and all those bees around his head, his hands.
And the thing you never see in all the national geographics and all the nature
documentaries is that it's always serious.
And here's the Hahn Hadza warrior. And here's, you know, whatever Nate,
these guys crack, you know, they're like, do you want,
do you want to come with us tomorrow?
Like none of your eating cliff bars and hanging back, like, do you want it?
I'm like, yeah, I'm in, okay. We leave at first, you know the second,
how are they saying this all to you? I have the translator with me.
He like works with them in the, you know,
it's like worst case scenario when they D they don't do food. This,
this is the sad part. They do the fake show for the tourists.
Like the tourists come in, usually European. And then they put on the fake.
It's not fake. It's real.
But they dress up and do like dances and stuff and they give them money. Um,
so I wake up at 5, 5 30 first noise,
and then laughter, I'm like, are these doing fart jokes at five in the morning?
And that's the thing that people don't realize is when you don't have TV,
internet entertainment,
and you're just with your family and your homeys all day, you're bored as.
So they joke morning till night. Like, I don't know what they're saying.
Laughter laughter someone cuts a fart joke and I'm like, all right,
let's go. So you saw the pictures, they're ripped back muscles, six packs.
The kids have six packs. I was very out of shape. I'm still out of shape,
but that was the most out of shape.
And think about waking up at five 30 in the morning and the thing
that's the final animal that's like kind of left is baboons. They call it,
they almost call them in, in that part of Africa. Like the baboon men,
because that's what they eat. Tastes horrible to me. Baboons look human.
So we're in a cave, men sleeping on the top bed, women on the bottom,
we wake up, there's another cave. And you see, oh there's people in that cave.
No they're baboons. And they're pointing at us. They're pointing. They're like,
look, they're coming. So I'm like, this is crazy. We're hunting baboons.
They're like, there's tons of meat on them.
We're gonna it's enough to feed our family.
Think about like running again.
I was pretty run fast in high school. I could do the 50 pretty quick.
I can't run at top speed for hours. And I, and I got these
I'm drinking water. And in this environment,
it's an advantage to have black skin. Cause it's cooling.
These guys aren't sweating. I'm like, what's going on?
We've been running for five hours.
You guys aren't sweating the and they don't get tired.
And then they'll just start digging a hole and drink like re like a handful of
brown water and that's enough for them. And I'm like, dude, what the?
Like I, and they're telling the translator,
this looks like he's never caught anything in his life. And he's like,
he hasn't. And to me, I'm an alien, right? They go,
he gets his food from supermarkets. What's that?
They hunt the food for him.
They cut it up and package it and sell it. Like they don't believe it. Right.
The I tell them, they're like, Hey, you guys, you look like a supermodel.
Can I bring you to America and do a fashion thing and get you guys paid and why
would we want to go to America? What w tell me what you know about America.
Isn't that the place where people jump off buildings to kill themselves.
Like that concept is so foreign that when someone explained suicide to them,
I was like, oh.
My God, they don't. And in, in the time that I'm there.
Like I said, that first week is withdrawal.
I'm like, where's my phone.
And then all of it goes away, right?
I'm not thinking about any of my addictions. I'm not thinking about like,
I feel peace. I'm not, I'm not miserable.
My depression goes away and I go morning till night,
you wake up, you hunt for food, you get home celebration.
Everyone's happy that the men brought the food back. The women, you know,
gathered the berries. We have a big dinner celebration. Cause every meal,
you gotta be grateful for dance party by the fire.
And you're out couple of fart jokes and you're out repeat the next day.
There's no time to be like bored and sad and upset
and worried about some. And so I'm trying to keep up with these guys,
you know, they're, they're running at top speed. Like say this is, um,
say these are the baboons on top of the bed. They're doing a perimeter.
They're doing okay. We're going to come up all the sides. And the, and the,
and the dogs are on the forefront. Right? They're running faster.
There's a guy named Allah, Allah on a, he's got some dreads. He's uh,
he's the village, the tribe we pothead.
He's got the Bible. He's rolling joints for everyone.
He's about 50 feet behind, you know, he's running at like, uh,
he's not doing this. He's like, he's got,
I'm maybe like two, 300 feet behind this guy.
So they're, they're trying to like, you know, come on.
So he's running and rolling joints. He's writing rolling joints. And
had you done any running before this? Not really, man. I'm a sprinter. I,
I don't, I can't, I don't have any sense that you're doing this for our, my God.
I almost blacked out. How many miles you think you were running, dude?
Cause they're, they're like going back and forth. We're like, I'm like, dude,
I'm just going to chill here. They just run everywhere, run everywhere,
just running. And you know, they don't, some of them have shoes.
Like they make homemade shoes,
but some of them don't so that it's just barefoot and I'm there run. It's the,
it's the dry Bush. Right? So there's like plants that have like thorns and like,
it looks like this on them. Just like that. White scratch to me.
I'm getting cut open. I'm like bleeding everywhere. They're skin's tough.
And they're just, they're just clowning me. They're clowning me.
They're like, bro, how did you ever survive? And I'm like, I'm like,
come on, come on guys. I put a GoPro on the dog.
So I go back and I watch it. The baboons is like a human,
like it's talking, get.
The away from me. away. The bathroom's running the dog. [inaudible] he's like,
you. They hunt them with dogs.
He gets hit right here. Just bleeding. So he's leaving a trail of blood,
hypes up the tribe. Let's call it where we got him. He's hit. The dog,
gets his nut sack, rips his Dick off. I'm running. The guy holds up his nuts.
He's like, look, we got the nuts. And I'm like, why are you showing me that?
He's like, he's, we're getting close.
They finally hit the guy, like sort of here. And in the end you're saying the.
Guy too, you're not just saying the baboons.
You're saying it hit the guy. It looks human, man. God, it does. Right.
It looks real close. He backs into a tree like a dog human though. Yeah.
And all the dogs, the dogs are dope. I love these dogs so much.
They're all hunting dogs.
So they all have scars and tales missing. Like,
cause the baboons have fangs. They pick the dogs up and they rip a chunk off.
Oh my God.
And these dogs are so hardcore that there's a dog that had one leg missing.
There's a dog that you could see his ribs and they're still down to hunt.
I'm like, like they're in the back with me. But there's still like, I,
I want to show value that, you know, cause I, I talked,
I interviewed each person in the tribe and I said,
what is the happiest day of your life? And they all had the same answer.
The day that I haunted the biggest animal and I got to feed everyone and I was
the hero. And so I'm like.
All baboons for how long, how long have they been only hunting baboons.
I mean, it's been for a few years now. I mean, they they'll hunt anything.
They'll kill anything. Right. There's nothing.
Left. But baboons just recently.
It's getting to just that. And even, even then, cause this day, that,
that day that I was on the first hunt, cause there was many days we hunted,
where were, we didn't catch anything. And that's like super downer for them.
But this is my first hunt. I had the GoPro, the guy's shot.
He backs into a tree like his last stand and the dogs just start ripping his
guts out and start, you know, and I'm watching this and he's like,
and it's like, he's going.
You. you. And he's just like, he's like.
Picking dogs up, throwing them. Oh my God.
And then you just come up and they go right in his chest. He's dead.
This is all on GoPro. I wasn't even close.
I was like, I was like, wait up guys.
They tie the, the foot and the leg and they make a backpack.
That's how they carry it. So they caught for that day.
So they bring it back to the village. I don't know if you saw in that picture,
I brought my top ramen with me. So I was like,
they don't waste a part of this thing.
The person that killed it gets to eat the Dick in the balls. They eat the head,
they eat the brains, they turn the fur into like jackets and um.
They just eat the brains dude.
So at night I thought, I thought dinner time was over. But think about it,
how much protein and nutrition is in the brain. Right. And it's the final thing.
Right? They stew the head and it's in that pot.
And so the brain gets cooked and then it's like a delicacy at the end.
They like tap a hole in and it's, you know, they have black skin.
Like I remember like it was fire. It was in the cave. It's nighttime.
And I hear, are you just here eating?
And I turned my flashlight on and I see like the whole tribe,
just showing the brains at the end. They're like, this is our favorite part.
And then for the end. Yeah. And they're just like split. And then,
so it's all this white brains like streaked on their face and I'm like, yo,
you want to get on this? Give me some of that brain.
So I had some brain and I eat everything. I mean it's there it is.
Doesn't that look like a person that's so intense. So once the first is,
but not on the screen just no. Yeah, good. Uh, the,
the fur look, so this is
look, I have some trouble. This I'm just not going to for this. Okay.
Well let me just say this. If that's how hardcore this picture is, right.
You can find it. You can find it easily. Look for like, like you want to talk.
This is life or death. I understand. So when, when.
But I'm saying, um, it is intense and there is a thing about primate brains,
right? Um, prion, prion diseases. So you get, uh,
they find them in cannibals.
So there's something about eating a human smoking,
the way humans eating human brains. Oh, so they did get a bird there. Yeah.
So sometimes they get birds too. So I am, but they're eating mostly baboons.
I tasted it. I wasn't eating it.
I'm like I have a million Clif bars in my backpack. I know that is so intense.
There's the dogs.
That guy carry a, a baboon on his back. Like the way you were describing,
it's so intense.
Or they got a, some.
Sort of an antelope or something there.
And then they drink and all of that water. But how can we with the Bible dude?
We could just go.
Um, so I'm, I, I pass out,
there's nothing left in the gas tank I pass out and the next day I'm like, okay,
like, like I'm becoming a man. They're like, did.
You eat the actual Baboo in meters?
Yeah. I hate the bamboo and meat. It's not for me. It's and I eat everything.
What it tastes like. I've never eaten a human,
but I'm imagining that's what a human would taste like. It was just,
I don't know, gamey that's the only it's it was just, it was strong.
But uh, um, well you.
Got to think of the physical strength of those animals to help their.
Maintenance and all the testosterone and everything is being released though.
It didn't taste good, but loved it.